Next up I'd like to talk about an important distinction that has to do with using a weight within an
async function.
So to illustrate this concept which I haven't even mentioned hit I'm going to use axes again to make
some requests asynchronously.
It takes time.
We'll use an async function.
We will await that request.
I have async emojis I have access included and we're going to work with a different API.
This time another free API pokey API dot co.
If we go to the endpoint API slash V2 such Pokémon then we pass in a Pokémon number like one we get
a ton of information about that Pokemon.
So let's request a couple different pokemon it's gonna copy that you are all we'll do something like
axioms that get Pokemon slash 1 and let's make sure that we create an async function to help us instead
of having to add a dot.
Then we get a promise back so we'll make our async function async function get How about 3 Pokémon that
will move that in there.
We will await.
Save that to a variable.
We'll call this Pokey.
It looks like poke 1 so we've got that.
We're awaiting it now if I just want to verify everything worked why don't we console that lug pokey
one dot data go to my page refresh.
Oh I'm never calling my function what a moron.
Get 3 Pokémon.
Try again.
Okay so now we get a ton of data about that one Pokémon.
Where is name its name not even included on.
There you go.
BOB Sorry I should know that Bob saw Pokemon one.
So if I wanted to also request 3 other pokemon I could do something like this Pokémon 2 equals awaits
X yo stock get Pokemon slash 2.
This could be Pokemon slash 3.
Make sure I use the correct name and then we can consider it like Pokemon 1 2 and 3 dot data so we're
awaiting each one.
We're gonna make this request when it's finished.
We get something back if it's resolved we keep moving on.
We're not catching any errors but I assume these are going to work.
My Internet's out.
The API is up and there we go.
It looks like it's pretty much instantaneous anyway but it's important to note they are happening in
sequence so this has to finish completely before this.
So this runs.
We get data back then this line runs.
We get data back.
Then this line.
So they're not going in parallel.
They're not being sent off at the same time like three passenger carrier pigeons.
Carrier pigeons.
Thanks.
What I mean to say.
Three pigeons or Harry Potter owls in the night with their own letters and packages.
No it's one going and returning.
Then the second owl leaves and returns the third.
Out leaves and returns they are in sequence.
And this isn't a huge deal for something like this although we don't need them to be in sequence because
these don't depend on one another.
We're not using information from this first request to make our second request.
We could if I wanted to get some UML from the response the actual data we get back I think.
Is there something instead of species.
Here we go.
Species has its own you.
I could request that we've got forms and then yeah I guess there's a you are all there and then each
ability has its own U.R.L. to get more information about.
So I could send a request to this you are Al for example and it would have to be in sequence.
We couldn't send them off at the exact same time because we're waiting for the first request to come
back before we make the second request.
But here they have nothing to do with one another.
They are independent endpoints.
They're not related.
Other than the fact that they're with the same API we're not depending on this one.
First in order to make this one so we can rewrite this to have a request go in parallel mean a duplicate
this all just right Sequential Requests
and then this one will be parallel.
I'm not going to await get rid of those awaits here.
I still need to wait at some point but I'm not waiting there.
Then down here I can oh poky one awaits pokey 2 and a waits poky 3 so this may not seem like a big distinction
but it is as far as the way these are actually happening behind the scenes.
It's a pretty massive difference.
So here we are not we're not using a wait anymore.
When we actually send off the request like we were here.
So this means that we're sending off the request it returned to promise.
So pokey 1 will contain a promise if I were to console that log it here console that log pokey 1 refresh
we see that we get a promise here and it's pending at this point.
All three of them are probably pending unless it's a incredibly fast request which is highly unlikely
that it's going to be javascript speed by the time it gets to this line.
They probably won't be back but then we're saying all right await the response that comes back.
Await the response await the response but the requests are being sent roughly at the same time.
I mean as fast as JavaScript can send them off or the browser can send them off versus here.
We're fully waiting for this response to come back from the request.
We're waiting for the promise to be resolved before we move on.
Same thing same thing here.
So I'm going to illustrate the difference with something that is slower so you can see it in just a
moment.
But let's make sure we can actually use the data right now what I have will not work.
A wait pokey you want to wait pokey to await pokey 3.
We are awaiting the promises we're making sure they're resolved but pokey one dot data does not exist.
Pokey 1 is the promise.
If I look at what I got printed out 3 undefined undefined undefined undefined up here pokey 1 pokie
2 in pokie 3 are not the promises.
This is a promise but when you put a weight there it waits for a resolved value and stores that resolved
value in the variable so pokie 1 is an actual response it's a value we get back here pokie 1 is a promise
so pokey ones should be resolved by the end but it doesn't actually have it's not a variable storing
the value.
So we could do this maybe promise one.
Just give them a different name from two from three and then we can await prom one two and three and
save those two variables.
So we would do something like this const pokey 1.
I need to change those numbers two and three equals a weight that promise a weight.
This promise await that promise.
So the three requests are sent off independently.
They're not in a sequence or not depending on one finishing before the next send.
They go off on their own into the night.
They come back.
We are waiting for a resolved value that resolve value will then be stored in pokey 1 2 and 3 fingers
crossed cannot access pokie 1 before initialization out.
Yes we change the name if we look at prom one it's a pending promise.
Then down here if I were to look at problem 1 again for some reason console that log from 1 it was pending.
Now it's resolved the value it was resolved with is this object this object here that is stored inside
of pokie 1 now.
So the promise was not resolved.
It was pending.
Now it's resolved because we awaited it.
Then we have access to all three of those pieces of data.
We can do something with them.
So these were sent in parallel which is a big distinction.
If you do not care that one request must be finished before the next is done but in a case like this
it doesn't matter.
It's better to do them in parallel.
So now let me illustrate the difference for you.
And I'm also going to show you another way to clean this up so we don't have to have all these variable
names.
But first I'll show you a much easier to see visualization of the difference between a waiting in sequence
versus a waiting in parallel.
These responses or the requests are coming back so lightning quick that it's actually almost impossible
to see with your own eye that they are slower.
If we do them in sequence versus parallel it just happens in a split second they all show up at once.
So I'm going to do something slower.
Let's make a function called Change body color which will accept a color and a delay.
It will return a promise and after this delay it will change the body color.
So our promise is going to have our resolve reject parameters.
Standard stuff.
Then we'll have a set time out where we have a function to run after a delay so that delay will be passed
in.
So I would call this like change body color to teal after one second.
So that will be one second there said time out.
After that one second is up.
We will set documents body style background color to equal color and then I'll resolve the promise.
I won't worry about rejecting it.
I guess we could reject if someone passes in a non color or an ugly color but we won't bother.
It's not really the point of this demo so let's make sure it works.
After one second.
Hopefully the body changes to deal.
There we go.
OK so now let's make an async function and we'll call this one light show and all we're going to do
is call changed body color and a weight that then we'll do it again.
Change body color to pink after a thousand milliseconds we'll call light show and see what happens.
So async await await this promise when it's resolved.
Then move on to this line.
So we go to Teel after a second and then pink.
OK.
So I'll add a couple more colors here.
Let's see teal pink.
How about indigo and violet.
So right now.
These are happening in sequence.
The first thing finishes.
Then the second and the third then the fourth.
Which is probably what we would want.
But if these were requests taking one second and they are not related we may not want that which is
what we saw up here.
So now let's see how this would work in parallel.
All comment out this version.
In parallel I would save each of these to a variable.
So I'm just going to select all of those and save it to a variable or I could put them in an array.
I'll show you something called promised that all in the next video I'll just go with P. 1 2 and 3.
I don't know the shortcut to do those numbers easily.
I have to manually type them.
Okay.
And then we'll do a wait P1 awaits P2.
Oh wait.
P 3 and P is just standing for promise.
So awaits P 4 what do you think we'll see.
So all four these functions are going to run roughly at the same time.
This one will run first then this on then this one they all take a second and they change the background
color and they resolve that promise that is returned.
So we await them down here rather than waiting for the full second to be up to then run to the next
one.
These will happen pretty much at the same time.
So this is what we see.
One second straight to what was the last color Violet.
We don't see those pauses along the way.
So this took only one second maybe a little tiny tiny bit more than one second.
This took four plus seconds.
Very different.
And here we get a different light show effect.
This is probably more desirable if either of them is at all desirable.
This is more interesting but with requests if you don't need them to happen in sequence do it in parallel
it makes way more sense to just have them go at the same time and await all of them at the end.
Speaking of which I'll show you an even simpler way of doing that in the next and final video and the
section coming up after this.
I think this is a good place to stop.
So we saw how we can make requests in sequence which is useful when you need one thing to come back
before the next.
Especially if they are dependent.
You're trying to use some data from the first request to then send off your second which I wasn't.
So then I showed you doing it in parallel where you don't await them at the same time that you were
actually creating the promise and sending that request off.
Instead you send the request off you await them afterwards and then we saw an illustration of visually
the difference using this light show function.
Okay.
So next I'm going to show you one last week and we'll be done with async functions.